Objectives of Designated Quarantine Hotel Scheme
To further prevent the importation of COVID-19 cases and reduce contact between arrivals and the local community, the Government fully implemented the Designated Quarantine Hotel Scheme and the Designated Transportation Scheme on 22 December 2020, requiring all arrivals from specified places to undergo compulsory quarantine at designated quarantine hotels.

The first and second cycles of the Scheme each involving 36 hotels ended on 19 February and 20 April 2021, respectively. There are 30 hotels in the third cycle, which was ended on 19 June 2021. The fourth cycle consisted of 35 hotels and provided about 10,800 rooms, and the contract period ended on 31 August 2021. The list of designated quarantine hotels for the fifth cycle included a total of 36 hotels providing about 10,000 rooms, which was ended on 30 November 2021.

The Government announced on 19 October 2021 the list of designated quarantine hotels for the sixth cycle. A total of 40 hotels provide about 11,500 rooms, which runs from 1 December 2021 to 28 February 2022.

The Government further announced on 31 December 2021 the list of designated quarantine hotels for the seventh cycle. A total of 44 hotels will provide about 12,500 rooms, which will run from 1 March to 31 July 2022. The Government might adjust the number of rooms available in this cycle as and where necessary.

Designated quarantine hotels are required to observe the following strict requirements, including:

all designated hotels have to be inspected by relevant departments (Department of Health, Electrical and Mechanical Services Department, Buildings Department, etc) so as to ensure the design, facilities and operations of the hotels meet the Government’s infection control requirements;
designated hotels should not accept non-quarantine guests during the period when joining the Scheme;
public should not be allowed to have access to the hotel premises, except for areas in lobby and carpark which have been properly segregated;
hotels should take all reasonable procedures to ensure that persons undergoing quarantine will not leave their rooms during the quarantine period and no visitations to these persons should be allowed;
hotels should step up cleansing and infection control as well as security arrangements and arrange for its relevant staff to attend COVID-19 test regularly as specified by the Government.

The Government will arrange dedicated staff to inspect the designated quarantine hotels to ensure their compliance with the relevant requirements imposed by the Government.

To minimise the contact between travellers and the community, the Government will provide designated point-to-point transportation at the Airport to convey travellers to the designated quarantine hotels. All coaches are required to observe the infection control requirements. Apart from the driver, there will be staff on each coach to ensure travellers will get off at the pre-booked hotels. Getting off in the middle of the journey is not allowed.